# Data Analyst Assistant 
The **Gemini Data Analyst Assistant** is a Streamlit-based tool designed to streamline the process of analyzing CSV data files. With a user-friendly interface, it allows users to upload multiple CSV files, ask questions related to data analysis, trends, or correlations, and receive insightful responses generated by the powerful Gemini Pro generative model.

## Features
- Easily upload and analyze multiple CSV files containing various data sets.
- Receive intelligent prompts guiding users on potential analysis questions and insights based on the uploaded data.
- The assistant utilizes the Gemini Pro generative model to provide data-driven responses to user queries
- Receive guidance on the most suitable visualizations and generate the code based on your data.
- Get tailored recommendations on machine learning models suitable for the provided CSV data.
- Streamlit provides an intuitive and interactive user interface for a smooth user experience.

## Installation and Setup
1. Clone the repository on your device:
   ``` bash
   git clone https://github.com/aashish1008/Data_Analyst_Assistant.git
2. Install dependinces:
   ``` bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
3. Set up your own API keys: Obtain Gemini-Pro API key ```########################################``` and configure in ```.env```.
   
## How to Use
1. Run the Streamlit app:
   ``` bash
   streamlit run app.py
2. Upload CSV Files: Use the file uploader to select and upload one or more CSV files.
3. Ask Questions: Enter your questions or prompts related to data analysis in the provided text input.
4. Receive Insights: Click the "Ask the question" button to receive detailed insights and analysis generated by the Data Analyst Assistant.

## Technologies Used
- **Streamlit:** A powerful Python library for creating web applications with minimal effort.
- **Gemini Pro:** Leveraging the generative capabilities of Google's Gemini Pro to provide intelligent responses.

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Feel free to open issues for bug reports or feature requests. Pull requests are encouraged.
